---
draft: false
tags:
  - journal
  - dev
---


Frustrating. Gods this is frustrating. 

I know in a few months this will all default to the beautiful mundanity of routine but for now, it is maddening. 

I'm getting into software development. Engineering. Whatever. Talking to rocks so they can flip the electricity inside of them and make computers do as my bidding but step 1 or step 0 even is just a lot of installing and then finding out things don't work QUITE yet.

It was intimidating on the desktop so I moved this over to my laptop. Different OS, possibly simpler since Mac navigates folders in a cleaner way. Or I'm just used to it from work, who knows. [Nicole van der Hoeven](https://www.youtube.com/@nicolevdh) uses a Mac and her coding knowledge is beastly. 

Anyways. I downloaded [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/). Made sure I had Node.js and it turns out that computers just *have* NPM. I'm up on the versions. I got [VStudio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and for funsies wanted to have a custom background. It recommended I install git for macOS. There's a terminal command to do it but nothing. 

`$ brew install git`
`$ isn't a valid command`

Something about having to add things to PATH.

...Just talked to ChatGPT. "$" is a symbol that means "type this in your command line"

How in the fuck... Is that common knowledge? 

"Copy and paste this line exactly"

*Uses $ at start*

"Oh don't actually use $"

GAH ok. Ok ok. Ok. Cool. Fantastic. It worked. Bet it even would've worked on the desktop.

---

SSH generates random art. I'm not going to paste the art in here just in case but I think it's adorable that art simply exists everywhere. There's a mesh of magic and art and tech, and it's all the same.

---

It worked. https://mezalyth.github.io/Blades-of-Glass/ can now be accessed as a digital garden.

### Lessons Learned:
- It's okay to restart from scratch
- Documentation first, tutorials second
- When in doubt, do it anyway
- It's okay to ask for help
- Push through the agony of not knowing, and knowing that you don't know. The agony is a taut bow-string and the completion is the heart-lifting anticipation as the arrow looses into the sky. Fire more arrows.
- Execution first, perfection after.

